hello guys so today i'm going to be
doing a presentation on incremental
reading
which is a set of techniques developed
by piotr wozniak aimed at massively
increasing the speed
fun and creativity of learning if you're
interested in learning more about
incremental reading i recommend that you
join our event on this sunday we're
going to do a discussion about
incremental reading
whether you're just a beginner or a
seasoned veteran whether you use anki
supermemo memzine whatever
i strongly recommend that you check out
the voice chat because they're a lot of
fun
so before we dive into super memos
implementation of incremental reading
why don't we first take a look at some
of the ideas that preceded it and
influenced it
so the first one that i'd like to take a
look at is isaac newton's waste book
it's an example of a commonplace book
which were often kept by
mathematicians and philosophers during
the renaissance period
you can see that in the margin he has a
bunch of notes and calculations
and here he's writing observations and
ideas
and they were basically used as an
external memory aid
so that he could develop his ideas
incrementally over time
the important thing to remember here is
that this was not a chronological
journal
but rather arranged by subject and then
incrementally updated and developed over
time by isaac newton
another idea that's pretty popular and
related to incremental reading
is settle casting zero casting was
developed by
a german sociologist by the name of
nicolas lumen he would create all of
these physical paper notes
and link them together and he would
describe his note-taking
and writing practices as engaging in a
conversation with the system
because he was able to use these
interlinked system of notes
to generate new ideas which massively
helped him in his writing
and there are many other examples of
systems and note-taking practices that
share a lot of overlapping ideas with
super memos incremental reading
rom research obsidian and animatics
evergreen notes
are just three examples so a common
thread running between all of these
systems is that they all augment the
memory by acting as an external store of
knowledge
all of them support an incremental
process in some sense
they allow you to re-engage with ideas
over time they all create a sort of
design serendipity
where rather than passively relying on
pure chance you're actively setting
yourself up to generate new ideas
i think the best way for me to introduce
what incremental reading is
especially to a beginner is to give my
own experience of the system that i was
personally using before i came across
super memos incremental reading
you can sort of consider it a caveman's
version a very primitive version of
supermemo's incremental reading so
essentially what i did is i had this
stack of textbooks that i kept on a
coffee table
next to a chair and every day i'd get up
go and sit in the chair
and just pick up the first textbook on
the top of the stack and start reading
so basically i just read through until i
got to something i thought was
interesting
maybe i'd make a note and then as soon
as i saw something
which just started to bore me or i just
started to feel tired
i basically take that book
and instead of putting it back on the
top of the stack i'd put it
at the bottom and then move the rest of
the stack of books on top of that book
and then basically i just continue the
process i would just take the next
book off the top of the stack this time
human anatomy
and i would read through and then when i
felt i got to something that was worth
remembering
i'd maybe make a highlight so while all
of these systems
overlap with incremental reading they
still can't really be considered
incremental reading systems so what is
incremental reading
based on an article from piotr wozniak
called the minimum definition of
incremental reading i've chosen
a few of the major features that i
consider to be essential to any
incremental reading system
and i'm going to step through each of
them and show you some examples in super
memo
of how they're used and what their
purpose is so the first feature that is
essential to any incremental reading
system
is interleaving to understand
interleaving we can very simply go back
to
the examples i gave in my own experience
essentially rather than just
reading through the entire biology book
or the entire anatomy book
i switch between them according to my
interests and whether i felt tired or
bored
you can also imagine isaac newton
switching between doing these very
lengthy calculations
and then moving on to his study of
optics and drawing some diagrams
the point here is that rather than
simply doing one thing
you're switching between different
subjects combining new and old knowledge
interleaving different materials and
sources so the implementation of
interleaving in supermemo it's very
simple i can start reading an article
for example this article on the brain
and as soon as i reach a point where i
start feeling tired or i'm just bored of
this article or whatever
i can simply hit next repetition and
i'll be teleported to the next article
on trees so what are extracts well
essentially extracts are used to
designate that a certain part of the
text has a greater value than the rest
of the text
it's extremely rare that an article has
all of its value distributed evenly
across
every single sentence and paragraph
instead certain paragraphs or sentences
will contain 90
of the value and extracts are
essentially a way of separating
those really valuable sentences and
paragraphs from the rest of the text and
giving them
a higher priority in my primitive
version of incremental reading
you can consider the highlights that i
made as being analogous to super memos
extracts
and in isaac newton's wastebook you can
consider the
notes he was making in the margin as
giving a higher priority
to the ideas that were contained within
the main text
here's an example of taking extracts in
supermember
so imagine that i was reading this
article on tree roots
and i came across this paragraph and i
decided that this
paragraph in particular contained a lot
of really useful information about trees
that i wanted to study in the future
what i could do is select the entire
paragraph
i could use alt x to extract that
now that is added as a child
under the parent article on roots
now i can go to this child extract and
i can increase the priority so setting a
lower number in this percent
uh text box will increase the priority
so perhaps i could
set it down here and essentially what
that means is
on the day when this extract is
scheduled
i will see it earlier in my queue the
third essential feature of an
incremental reading system
is the ability to make closed deletions
and close deletions
are a very simple way of turning
extracts into
flashcard questions i'll use this
paragraph that i highlighted in the
anatomy book as an example
in humans the hearts is approximately
the size of a closed fist
if i was to apply a closed deletion to
this paragraph i might get something
like this
in humans the heart is approx the size
of a
and then this part is the closed
deletion and this would show up as the
answer
closed fist on the flash card so here's
an example of a closed deletion in
supermemo
say that i have this extract about the
roots of a tree and what they actually
do
i could take this part of the extract
and use alt said to close it
and then we can look at what that's
created
it's basically created a flash card so
the
something of a tree serve to anchor it
to the ground and gather water and
nutrients to transfer to all parts of
the tree
then the answer is roots and what that
will look like when you come across it
in your queue when you're doing your
repetitions
is like this and then you show the
answer
and you can give it a grade whether you
remembered or not so the next important
part
of any incremental reading system is the
priority queue
the queue portion of the priority queue
basically refers to your list of
articles or books
and the priority part refers to the
notion that each
article or book in your queue should be
assigned a priority
based on its expected value in my
primitive version of incremental reading
the stack can be seen as a very simple
version of a priority queue
for example when i finished reading the
tree biology for guinness book
rather than placing it back on the top
of the stack instead i placed it at the
bottom of the stack
if i wanted to give it a higher priority
i could have placed it
for example in the middle of the stack
and then i would see it more often than
the other books over time
you can also see an example of implicit
prioritization in the zetter cutting
system
because all of these index cards are
linked together
what you'll find over time is that
you'll have hubs in the network that
have many more links than the other
cards
when you're writing an article with your
settle casting system and you're
following the links between cards to
generate new ideas
what you'll find is that you'll end up
allocating more time to those index
cards with a higher number of links
i think the priority queue system in
supermemo is much easier to understand
let's take a look so here you can see a
sorted list of
all of the articles in my collection the
highest priority ones
those with the lowest priority number
come right at the top
and then i have the lowest priority
articles right at the bottom
and each day when i open supermemo and i
want to do incremental reading
the queue will automatically be sorted
for me so that
i will allocate most of my time to the
most important articles and if i don't
get to the ones at the bottom then
that's not a big deal because they
contain less valuable information i want
to briefly mention one more really
interesting point about the priority
queue
we have a natural and desirable bias
towards information that we can easily
assimilate
into our prior knowledge in supermemo
you tend to prioritize that sort of
information
more highly meaning that most of your
time in this system is allocated towards
effortlessly slotting in new pieces of
knowledge into your prior knowledge
the entire system is essentially
designed to help you make dendritic
progress
gradually extending your understanding
of the world at the frontiers of your
prior knowledge
this contrasts very strongly with forms
of linear learning such as in the
traditional education system
where the semantic distance between your
prior knowledge and the thing that you
want to learn
is too long and so you're just not able
to assimilate it into your prior
knowledge
an incremental reading system can't
really be considered complete without
spaced repetition
with space repetition you are repeatedly
shown articles and flash cards
over time so that you're able to
re-engage with old ideas and concepts
it also allows you to maximize the
amount of high priority knowledge
stored in your memory at a given time
this is probably one of the most
important features of incremental
reading
and i think it's one of the features
that most of the other systems that i
mentioned before
lack so each day the super memory
algorithm is going to try and show me
those flash cards that it thinks that i
might forget
and by recalling the answer of each
flash card
it's going to reconsolidate the memory
and strengthen it
and that will mean that that piece of
information can last for a longer period
of time
in my memory before it needs to be
refreshed again
okay finally let's link everything
together and look at the flow of
knowledge
through an incremental reading system so
here you can see an example of me
going through my learning cue for the
day and supermemo is going to interleave
flashcards
articles and materials from many
different subjects
so straight away you can see that
supermemory is showing me some
flashcards to make sure i remember this
information about trees
now it's showing me an article and i
found these two paragraphs to be
especially interesting so i extracted
them
finally i found this interesting
sentence and i created a
closed deletion card so that i can be
reminded of that information in the
future
so essentially the entire purpose of the
system is to efficiently convert
passive articles books and extracts
into flashcards that use active recall
to maximize
the amount of knowledge that you can
store in your memory at a given point in
time
this is essential because knowledge
stored in the mind forms the backbone of
human creativity
any creative process requires a great
deal of inferential knowledge that you
can call upon
during problem solving when you're
writing a book starting a business and
so on
to emphasize this point i want to
quickly review the mechanism of
creativity in the human brain
you can basically think of it as a kind
of search process and its goal is to
find useful associations that you can
use in problem solving
an important point is that the mechanism
of creativity is an internal process for
the brain that depends on prior
knowledge stored inside your memory
interestingly the mechanism of
creativity can be both conscious
and unconscious it can be conscious for
example when you're actively trying to
solve a problem and thinking about what
the next step
to solve the problem could be but it can
also be unconscious for example during
sleep
to link this back to the systems that i
showed you at the beginning of this
presentation for example the zettel
custom system and
isaac newton's commonplace book they
both take a similar approach
in that there's a dividing line between
the knowledge stored within the brain
of the human and the knowledge stored
within the external
system this for me is really the
critical difference between
super mario's implementation of
incremental reading and the
other systems that i described earlier
rather than treating
the knowledge stored within the
learner's mind and the knowledge stored
within the external system as separate
super memo emphasizes the use of space
repetition to
maintain the knowledge stored within the
external system
inside the learner's mind given that a
large body of influential knowledge
underlies many different creative
processes and given the efficiency of
the space repetition algorithm
this creates an extremely well optimized
process to support learning and
creativity
so that's it for my introduction to
incremental reading a reminder to join
the discussion on sunday if you have
time
and tweet at experia learning on twitter
with any feedback
thanks guys